
Hi Ohm, 

 

As discussed please start preparing on Angularjs

 

Also pls have idea about below technologies : what the technology is, its purpose, basic usage etc

Typescript

NPM 
Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine.
Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient. 
Node.js allows the creation of Web servers and networking tools using JavaScript and a collection of "modules" that handle various core functionality.
Node.js' package ecosystem, npm, is the largest ecosystem of open source libraries in the world.
npm, short for Node Package Manager, is two things: first and foremost, it is an online repository for the publishing of open-source Node.js projects; second, it is a command-line utility for interacting with said repository that aids in package installation, version management, and dependency management.


Jasmine , Mocha, PhantomJS, Nightwatch
Jasmine is a behavior-driven development framework for testing JavaScript code. It does not depend on any other JavaScript frameworks. It does not require a DOM. And it has a clean, obvious syntax so that you can easily write tests.


SPA Angular, EmberJs, Meteor
A single-page application (SPA) is a web application or web site that fits on a single web page with the goal of providing a user experience similar to that of a desktop application.In an SPA, either all necessary code – HTML, JavaScript, and CSS – is retrieved with a single page load and  appropriate resources are dynamically loaded and added to the page as necessary, usually in response to user actions.
The page does not reload at any point in the process, nor does control transfer to another page

Flux architecture
Flux is the application architecture that Facebook uses for building client-side web applications.
Flux is an architecture that Facebook uses internally when working with React. It is not a framework or a library. 

 

I have also attached few interview Question banks for your reference. 

 

Regards, 

Savita Phatak
